1. What is Linux?
A basic question to assess your understanding of the operating system. Linux is an open-source, Unix-like operating system used for various purposes like servers, desktops, and embedded systems.

2. What are the advantages of using Linux?
Key advantages include open-source nature, security, stability, scalability, flexibility, and cost-effectiveness.

3. What are the different types of Linux distributions?
Popular distributions include Ubuntu, CentOS, Red Hat, Debian, Fedora, and Arch Linux. You might be asked about their differences or purposes.

4. Explain the basic Linux file system hierarchy.
The Linux file system starts from the root directory (/). Common directories include:

/bin (binary executables)

/home (user home directories)

/etc (configuration files)

/var (variable data files)

/usr (user programs)

/tmp (temporary files)

5. What is the kernel in Linux?
The kernel is the core part of the Linux operating system that manages hardware, resources, and communication between software and hardware.

6. What is a shell in Linux?
A shell is a command-line interface used to interact with the operating system. Common types include the Bourne Again Shell (bash), Z shell (zsh), and C shell (csh).

7. What is a process in Linux?
A process is an instance of a running program. You should understand process states, commands like ps, top, and managing processes (e.g., kill, nice).

8. How do you find out which process is using a particular port?
Using commands like:

lsof -i :<port_number>

netstat -tuln

ss -tuln

9. What are some common Linux commands?
Basic commands include:

ls (list files)

cd (change directory)

pwd (print working directory)

cp (copy files)

mv (move/rename files)

rm (remove files)

cat (concatenate and display file content)

chmod (change file permissions)

chown (change file ownership)

df (disk space usage)

du (disk usage for files/directories)

10. What is a symbolic link in Linux?
A symbolic link (symlink) is a type of file that points to another file or directory. You can create one with the ln -s command.

11. What is the difference between su and sudo?
su allows you to switch to another user account (default root), while sudo allows executing a command with superuser privileges.

12. What is the difference between a hard link and a symbolic link?
A hard link is a direct reference to the inode of a file, whereas a symbolic link is a pointer to the file name.

13. How do you check disk space usage in Linux?
You can use the df command to see overall disk usage and du to check disk usage for specific directories.

14. Explain the file permissions in Linux.
Files have three types of permissions: read (r), write (w), and execute (x) for the owner, group, and others. You can check permissions with ls -l and modify them using chmod.

15. How would you view the content of a file in Linux?
You can use commands like cat, more, less, or head and tail to view the contents of a file.

16. What is a package manager in Linux?
A package manager is used to install, update, and remove software packages. Examples include apt (for Debian/Ubuntu), yum (for Red Hat/CentOS), and dnf (for Fedora).

17. How do you find files in Linux?
You can use the find command to search for files based on various criteria. For example: find /path/to/search -name "*.txt".

18. What is the difference between grep and find?
grep is used to search for text within files, while find is used to search for files in a directory hierarchy.

19. What are cron jobs in Linux?
Cron jobs are scheduled tasks that run at specific times. You can configure them using the crontab command.

20. How do you add or remove users in Linux?
You can add a user with useradd and remove a user with userdel. To manage passwords, use passwd.

21. What is the difference between kill and killall?
kill terminates a process by PID, while killall terminates processes by name.

22. What is the top command used for in Linux?
The top command is used to display real-time system statistics, such as CPU usage, memory usage, and running processes.

23. Explain the concept of virtual memory in Linux.
Virtual memory allows the OS to use disk space as an extension of RAM, enabling programs to run even if physical memory is insufficient.

24. What is a daemon in Linux?
A daemon is a background process that runs without user interaction, often managing system services. For example, sshd for secure connections.

25. How do you check the system's uptime in Linux?
The uptime command shows the system's running time, load averages, and number of users.

26. What is the difference between a soft and hard shutdown in Linux?
A soft shutdown (e.g., shutdown) gracefully stops processes, while a hard shutdown (e.g., powering off directly) might cause data loss.

27. How do you manage services in Linux?
For systems using systemd, you can manage services with systemctl. For example, systemctl start <service> or systemctl stop <service>.

28. What is the use of tar command?
tar is used to compress or extract files from tarballs (compressed archive files), e.g., tar -czf archive.tar.gz file.

29. How do you view the system logs in Linux?
You can view logs using journalctl (for systemd systems) or by looking at log files in /var/log/ (e.g., dmesg, syslog, auth.log).

30. What is the significance of the /etc/passwd file in Linux?
The /etc/passwd file contains user account information, including usernames, UIDs, GIDs, home directories, and default shells.
